[{"id":"228698213629622454","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.18181","title":"MACE-Dance: Motion-Appearance Cascaded Experts for Music-Driven Dance Video Generation","description":"arXiv:2512.18181v2 Announce Type: replace Abstract: With the rise of online dance-video platforms and rapid advances in AI-generated content (AIGC), music-driven dance generation has emerged as a compelling research direction. Despite substantial progress in related domains such as music-driven 3D dance generation, pose-driven image animation, and audio-driven talking-head synthesis, existing methods cannot be directly adapted to this task. Moreover, the limited studies in this area still struggle to jointly achieve high-quality visual appearance and realistic human motion. Accordingly, we present MACE-Dance, a music-driven dance video generation framework with cascaded Mixture-of-Experts (MoE). The Motion Expert performs music-to-3D motion generation while enforcing kinematic plausibility and artistic expressiveness, whereas the Appearance Expert carries out motion- and reference-conditioned video synthesis, preserving visual identity with spatiotemporal coherence. Specifically, the Motion Expert adopts a diffusion model with a BiMamba-Transformer hybrid architecture and a Guidance-Free Training (GFT) strategy, achieving state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in 3D dance generation. The Appearance Expert employs a decoupled kinematic-aesthetic fine-tuning strategy, achieving state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in pose-driven image animation. To better benchmark this task, we curate a large-scale and diverse dataset and design a motion-appearance evaluation protocol. Based on this protocol, MACE-Dance also achieves state-of-the-art performance. Project page: https://macedance.github.io/","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.999Z","authors":"Kaixing Yang, Jiashu Zhu, Xulong Tang, Ziqiao Peng, Xiangyue Zhang, Puwei Wang, Jiahong Wu, Xiangxiang Chu, Hongyan Liu, Jun He","source":"cs.CV updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.18181v2 Announce Type: replace \nAbstract: With the rise of online dance-video platforms and rapid advances in AI-generated content (AIGC), music-driven dance generation has emerged as a compelling research direction. Despite substantial progress in related domains such as music-driven 3D dance generation, pose-driven image animation, and audio-driven talking-head synthesis, existing methods cannot be directly adapted to this task. Moreover, the limited studies in this area still struggle to jointly achieve high-quality visual appearance and realistic human motion. Accordingly, we present MACE-Dance, a music-driven dance video generation framework with cascaded Mixture-of-Experts (MoE). The Motion Expert performs music-to-3D motion generation while enforcing kinematic plausibility and artistic expressiveness, whereas the Appearance Expert carries out motion- and reference-conditioned video synthesis, preserving visual identity with spatiotemporal coherence. Specifically, the Motion Expert adopts a diffusion model with a BiMamba-Transformer hybrid architecture and a Guidance-Free Training (GFT) strategy, achieving state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in 3D dance generation. The Appearance Expert employs a decoupled kinematic-aesthetic fine-tuning strategy, achieving state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in pose-driven image animation. To better benchmark this task, we curate a large-scale and diverse dataset and design a motion-appearance evaluation protocol. Based on this protocol, MACE-Dance also achieves state-of-the-art performance. Project page: https://macedance.github.io/"}},{"id":"228710199011844141","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23508","title":"Why AI Safety Requires Uncertainty, Incomplete Preferences, and Non-Archimedean Utilities","description":"arXiv:2512.23508v1 Announce Type: new Abstract: How can we ensure that AI systems are aligned with human values and remain safe? We can study this problem through the frameworks of the AI assistance and the AI shutdown games. The AI assistance problem concerns designing an AI agent that helps a human to maximise their utility function(s). However, only the human knows these function(s); the AI assistant must learn them. The shutdown problem instead concerns designing AI agents that: shut down when a shutdown button is pressed; neither try to prevent nor cause the pressing of the shutdown button; and otherwise accomplish their task competently. In this paper, we show that addressing these challenges requires AI agents that can reason under uncertainty and handle both incomplete and non-Archimedean preferences.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.999Z","authors":"Alessio Benavoli, Alessandro Facchini, Marco Zaffalon","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23508v1 Announce Type: new \nAbstract: How can we ensure that AI systems are aligned with human values and remain safe? We can study this problem through the frameworks of the AI assistance and the AI shutdown games. The AI assistance problem concerns designing an AI agent that helps a human to maximise their utility function(s). However, only the human knows these function(s); the AI assistant must learn them. The shutdown problem instead concerns designing AI agents that: shut down when a shutdown button is pressed; neither try to prevent nor cause the pressing of the shutdown button; and otherwise accomplish their task competently. In this paper, we show that addressing these challenges requires AI agents that can reason under uncertainty and handle both incomplete and non-Archimedean preferences."}},{"id":"228710199016038403","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.22186","title":"Learning Tennis Strategy Through Curriculum-Based Dueling Double Deep Q-Networks","description":"arXiv:2512.22186v1 Announce Type: cross Abstract: Tennis strategy optimization is a challenging sequential decision-making problem involving hierarchical scoring, stochastic outcomes, long-horizon credit assignment, physical fatigue, and adaptation to opponent skill. I present a reinforcement learning framework that integrates a custom tennis simulation environment with a Dueling Double Deep Q-Network(DDQN) trained using curriculum learning. The environment models complete tennis scoring at the level of points, games, and sets, rally-level tactical decisions across ten discrete action categories, symmetric fatigue dynamics, and a continuous opponent skill parameter. The dueling architecture decomposes action-value estimation into state-value and advantage components, while double Q-learning reduces overestimation bias and improves training stability in this long-horizon stochastic domain. Curriculum learning progressively increases opponent difficulty from 0.40 to 0.50, enabling robust skill acquisition without the training collapse observed under fixed opponents. Across extensive evaluations, the trained agent achieves win rates between 98 and 100 percent against balanced opponents and maintains strong performance against more challenging opponents. Serve efficiency ranges from 63.0 to 67.5 percent, and return efficiency ranges from 52.8 to 57.1 percent. Ablation studies demonstrate that both the dueling architecture and curriculum learning are necessary for stable convergence, while a standard DQN baseline fails to learn effective policies. Despite strong performance, tactical analysis reveals a pronounced defensive bias, with the learned policy prioritizing error avoidance and prolonged rallies over aggressive point construction. These results highlight a limitation of win-rate driven optimization in simplified sports simulations and emphasize the importance of reward design for realistic sports reinforcement learning.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.998Z","authors":"Vishnu Mohan","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.22186v1 Announce Type: cross \nAbstract: Tennis strategy optimization is a challenging sequential decision-making problem involving hierarchical scoring, stochastic outcomes, long-horizon credit assignment, physical fatigue, and adaptation to opponent skill. I present a reinforcement learning framework that integrates a custom tennis simulation environment with a Dueling Double Deep Q-Network(DDQN) trained using curriculum learning. The environment models complete tennis scoring at the level of points, games, and sets, rally-level tactical decisions across ten discrete action categories, symmetric fatigue dynamics, and a continuous opponent skill parameter. The dueling architecture decomposes action-value estimation into state-value and advantage components, while double Q-learning reduces overestimation bias and improves training stability in this long-horizon stochastic domain. Curriculum learning progressively increases opponent difficulty from 0.40 to 0.50, enabling robust skill acquisition without the training collapse observed under fixed opponents. Across extensive evaluations, the trained agent achieves win rates between 98 and 100 percent against balanced opponents and maintains strong performance against more challenging opponents. Serve efficiency ranges from 63.0 to 67.5 percent, and return efficiency ranges from 52.8 to 57.1 percent. Ablation studies demonstrate that both the dueling architecture and curriculum learning are necessary for stable convergence, while a standard DQN baseline fails to learn effective policies. Despite strong performance, tactical analysis reveals a pronounced defensive bias, with the learned policy prioritizing error avoidance and prolonged rallies over aggressive point construction. These results highlight a limitation of win-rate driven optimization in simplified sports simulations and emphasize the importance of reward design for realistic sports reinforcement learning."}},{"id":"228698213629622311","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23453","title":"CoFi-Dec: Hallucination-Resistant Decoding via Coarse-to-Fine Generative Feedback in Large Vision-Language Models","description":"arXiv:2512.23453v1 Announce Type: new Abstract: Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have achieved impressive progress in multi-modal understanding and generation. However, they still tend to produce hallucinated content that is inconsistent with the visual input, which limits their reliability in real-world applications. We propose \\textbf{CoFi-Dec}, a training-free decoding framework that mitigates hallucinations by integrating generative self-feedback with coarse-to-fine visual conditioning. Inspired by the human visual process from global scene perception to detailed inspection, CoFi-Dec first generates two intermediate textual responses conditioned on coarse- and fine-grained views of the original image. These responses are then transformed into synthetic images using a text-to-image model, forming multi-level visual hypotheses that enrich grounding cues. To unify the predictions from these multiple visual conditions, we introduce a Wasserstein-based fusion mechanism that aligns their predictive distributions into a geometrically consistent decoding trajectory. This principled fusion reconciles high-level semantic consistency with fine-grained visual grounding, leading to more robust and faithful outputs. Extensive experiments on six hallucination-focused benchmarks show that CoFi-Dec substantially reduces both entity-level and semantic-level hallucinations, outperforming existing decoding strategies. The framework is model-agnostic, requires no additional training, and can be seamlessly applied to a wide range of LVLMs. The implementation is available at https://github.com/AI-Researcher-Team/CoFi-Dec.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.996Z","authors":"Zongsheng Cao, Yangfan He, Anran Liu, Jun Xie, Feng Chen, Zepeng Wang","source":"cs.CV updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23453v1 Announce Type: new \nAbstract: Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have achieved impressive progress in multi-modal understanding and generation. However, they still tend to produce hallucinated content that is inconsistent with the visual input, which limits their reliability in real-world applications. We propose \\textbf{CoFi-Dec}, a training-free decoding framework that mitigates hallucinations by integrating generative self-feedback with coarse-to-fine visual conditioning. Inspired by the human visual process from global scene perception to detailed inspection, CoFi-Dec first generates two intermediate textual responses conditioned on coarse- and fine-grained views of the original image. These responses are then transformed into synthetic images using a text-to-image model, forming multi-level visual hypotheses that enrich grounding cues. To unify the predictions from these multiple visual conditions, we introduce a Wasserstein-based fusion mechanism that aligns their predictive distributions into a geometrically consistent decoding trajectory. This principled fusion reconciles high-level semantic consistency with fine-grained visual grounding, leading to more robust and faithful outputs. Extensive experiments on six hallucination-focused benchmarks show that CoFi-Dec substantially reduces both entity-level and semantic-level hallucinations, outperforming existing decoding strategies. The framework is model-agnostic, requires no additional training, and can be seamlessly applied to a wide range of LVLMs. The implementation is available at https://github.com/AI-Researcher-Team/CoFi-Dec."}},{"id":"228698213629622364","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.22899","title":"HiSciBench: A Hierarchical Multi-disciplinary Benchmark for Scientific Intelligence from Reading to Discovery","description":"arXiv:2512.22899v1 Announce Type: cross Abstract: The rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs) and multimodal foundation models has sparked growing interest in their potential for scientific research. However, scientific intelligence encompasses a broad spectrum of abilities ranging from understanding fundamental knowledge to conducting creative discovery, and existing benchmarks remain fragmented. Most focus on narrow tasks and fail to reflect the hierarchical and multi-disciplinary nature of real scientific inquiry. We introduce \\textbf{HiSciBench}, a hierarchical benchmark designed to evaluate foundation models across five levels that mirror the complete scientific workflow: \\textit{Scientific Literacy} (L1), \\textit{Literature Parsing} (L2), \\textit{Literature-based Question Answering} (L3), \\textit{Literature Review Generation} (L4), and \\textit{Scientific Discovery} (L5). HiSciBench contains 8,735 carefully curated instances spanning six major scientific disciplines, including mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, geography, and astronomy, and supports multimodal inputs including text, equations, figures, and tables, as well as cross-lingual evaluation. Unlike prior benchmarks that assess isolated abilities, HiSciBench provides an integrated, dependency-aware framework that enables detailed diagnosis of model capabilities across different stages of scientific reasoning. Comprehensive evaluations of leading models, including GPT-5, DeepSeek-R1, and several multimodal systems, reveal substantial performance gaps: while models achieve up to 69\\% accuracy on basic literacy tasks, performance declines sharply to 25\\% on discovery-level challenges. HiSciBench establishes a new standard for evaluating scientific Intelligence and offers actionable insights for developing models that are not only more capable but also more reliable. The benchmark will be publicly released to facilitate future research.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.996Z","authors":"Yaping Zhang, Qixuan Zhang, Xingquan Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Wenwen Zhuang, Yupu Liang, Lu Xiang, Yang Zhao, Jiajun Zhang, Yu Zhou, Chengqing Zong","source":"cs.CV updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.22899v1 Announce Type: cross \nAbstract: The rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs) and multimodal foundation models has sparked growing interest in their potential for scientific research. However, scientific intelligence encompasses a broad spectrum of abilities ranging from understanding fundamental knowledge to conducting creative discovery, and existing benchmarks remain fragmented. Most focus on narrow tasks and fail to reflect the hierarchical and multi-disciplinary nature of real scientific inquiry. We introduce \\textbf{HiSciBench}, a hierarchical benchmark designed to evaluate foundation models across five levels that mirror the complete scientific workflow: \\textit{Scientific Literacy} (L1), \\textit{Literature Parsing} (L2), \\textit{Literature-based Question Answering} (L3), \\textit{Literature Review Generation} (L4), and \\textit{Scientific Discovery} (L5). HiSciBench contains 8,735 carefully curated instances spanning six major scientific disciplines, including mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, geography, and astronomy, and supports multimodal inputs including text, equations, figures, and tables, as well as cross-lingual evaluation. Unlike prior benchmarks that assess isolated abilities, HiSciBench provides an integrated, dependency-aware framework that enables detailed diagnosis of model capabilities across different stages of scientific reasoning. Comprehensive evaluations of leading models, including GPT-5, DeepSeek-R1, and several multimodal systems, reveal substantial performance gaps: while models achieve up to 69\\% accuracy on basic literacy tasks, performance declines sharply to 25\\% on discovery-level challenges. HiSciBench establishes a new standard for evaluating scientific Intelligence and offers actionable insights for developing models that are not only more capable but also more reliable. The benchmark will be publicly released to facilitate future research."}},{"id":"228710199016038520","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23028","title":"An Architecture-Led Hybrid Report on Body Language Detection Project","description":"arXiv:2512.23028v1 Announce Type: cross Abstract: This report provides an architecture-led analysis of two modern vision-language models (VLMs), Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct and Llama-4-Scout-17B-16E-Instruct, and explains how their architectural properties map to a practical video-to-artifact pipeline implemented in the BodyLanguageDetection repository [1]. The system samples video frames, prompts a VLM to detect visible people and generate pixel-space bounding boxes with prompt-conditioned attributes (emotion by default), validates output structure using a predefined schema, and optionally renders an annotated video. We first summarize the shared multimodal foundation (visual tokenization, Transformer attention, and instruction following), then describe each architecture at a level sufficient to justify engineering choices without speculative internals. Finally, we connect model behavior to system constraints: structured outputs can be syntactically valid while semantically incorrect, schema validation is structural (not geometric correctness), person identifiers are frame-local in the current prompting contract, and interactive single-frame analysis returns free-form text rather than schema-enforced JSON. These distinctions are critical for writing defensible claims, designing robust interfaces, and planning evaluation.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.996Z","authors":"Thomson Tong, Diba Darooneh","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23028v1 Announce Type: cross \nAbstract: This report provides an architecture-led analysis of two modern vision-language models (VLMs), Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct and Llama-4-Scout-17B-16E-Instruct, and explains how their architectural properties map to a practical video-to-artifact pipeline implemented in the BodyLanguageDetection repository [1]. The system samples video frames, prompts a VLM to detect visible people and generate pixel-space bounding boxes with prompt-conditioned attributes (emotion by default), validates output structure using a predefined schema, and optionally renders an annotated video. We first summarize the shared multimodal foundation (visual tokenization, Transformer attention, and instruction following), then describe each architecture at a level sufficient to justify engineering choices without speculative internals. Finally, we connect model behavior to system constraints: structured outputs can be syntactically valid while semantically incorrect, schema validation is structural (not geometric correctness), person identifiers are frame-local in the current prompting contract, and interactive single-frame analysis returns free-form text rather than schema-enforced JSON. These distinctions are critical for writing defensible claims, designing robust interfaces, and planning evaluation."}},{"id":"228698213629622327","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23573","title":"ProGuard: Towards Proactive Multimodal Safeguard","description":"arXiv:2512.23573v1 Announce Type: new Abstract: The rapid evolution of generative models has led to a continuous emergence of multimodal safety risks, exposing the limitations of existing defense methods. To address these challenges, we propose ProGuard, a vision-language proactive guard that identifies and describes out-of-distribution (OOD) safety risks without the need for model adjustments required by traditional reactive approaches. We first construct a modality-balanced dataset of 87K samples, each annotated with both binary safety labels and risk categories under a hierarchical multimodal safety taxonomy, effectively mitigating modality bias and ensuring consistent moderation across text, image, and text-image inputs. Based on this dataset, we train our vision-language base model purely through reinforcement learning (RL) to achieve efficient and concise reasoning. To approximate proactive safety scenarios in a controlled setting, we further introduce an OOD safety category inference task and augment the RL objective with a synonym-bank-based similarity reward that encourages the model to generate concise descriptions for unseen unsafe categories. Experimental results show that ProGuard achieves performance comparable to closed-source large models on binary safety classification, substantially outperforms existing open-source guard models on unsafe content categorization. Most notably, ProGuard delivers a strong proactive moderation ability, improving OOD risk detection by 52.6% and OOD risk description by 64.8%.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.995Z","authors":"Shaohan Yu, Lijun Li, Chenyang Si, Lu Sheng, Jing Shao","source":"cs.CV updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23573v1 Announce Type: new \nAbstract: The rapid evolution of generative models has led to a continuous emergence of multimodal safety risks, exposing the limitations of existing defense methods. To address these challenges, we propose ProGuard, a vision-language proactive guard that identifies and describes out-of-distribution (OOD) safety risks without the need for model adjustments required by traditional reactive approaches. We first construct a modality-balanced dataset of 87K samples, each annotated with both binary safety labels and risk categories under a hierarchical multimodal safety taxonomy, effectively mitigating modality bias and ensuring consistent moderation across text, image, and text-image inputs. Based on this dataset, we train our vision-language base model purely through reinforcement learning (RL) to achieve efficient and concise reasoning. To approximate proactive safety scenarios in a controlled setting, we further introduce an OOD safety category inference task and augment the RL objective with a synonym-bank-based similarity reward that encourages the model to generate concise descriptions for unseen unsafe categories. Experimental results show that ProGuard achieves performance comparable to closed-source large models on binary safety classification, substantially outperforms existing open-source guard models on unsafe content categorization. Most notably, ProGuard delivers a strong proactive moderation ability, improving OOD risk detection by 52.6% and OOD risk description by 64.8%."}},{"id":"228710199016038630","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.12961","title":"QLLM: Do We Really Need a Mixing Network for Credit Assignment in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning?","description":"arXiv:2504.12961v4 Announce Type: replace-cross Abstract: Credit assignment has remained a fundamental challenge in multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL). Previous studies have primarily addressed this issue through value decomposition methods under the centralized training with decentralized execution paradigm, where neural networks are utilized to approximate the nonlinear relationship between individual Q-values and the global Q-value. Although these approaches have achieved considerable success in various benchmark tasks, they still suffer from several limitations, including imprecise attribution of contributions, limited interpretability, and poor scalability in high-dimensional state spaces. To address these challenges, we propose a novel algorithm, QLLM, which facilitates the automatic construction of credit assignment functions using large language models (LLMs). Specifically, the concept of TFCAF is introduced, wherein the credit allocation process is represented as a direct and expressive nonlinear functional formulation. A custom-designed coder-evaluator framework is further employed to guide the generation and verification of executable code by LLMs, significantly mitigating issues such as hallucination and shallow reasoning during inference. Furthermore, an IGM-Gating Mechanism enables QLLM to flexibly enforce or relax the monotonicity constraint depending on task demands, covering both IGM-compliant and non-monotonic scenarios. Extensive experiments conducted on several standard MARL benchmarks demonstrate that the proposed method consistently outperforms existing state-of-the-art baselines. Moreover, QLLM exhibits strong generalization capability and maintains compatibility with a wide range of MARL algorithms that utilize mixing networks, positioning it as a promising and versatile solution for complex multi-agent scenarios. The code is available at https://github.com/zhouyangjiang71-sys/QLLM.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.994Z","authors":"Zhouyang Jiang, Bin Zhang, Yuanjun Li, Zhiwei Xu","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2504.12961v4 Announce Type: replace-cross \nAbstract: Credit assignment has remained a fundamental challenge in multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL). Previous studies have primarily addressed this issue through value decomposition methods under the centralized training with decentralized execution paradigm, where neural networks are utilized to approximate the nonlinear relationship between individual Q-values and the global Q-value. Although these approaches have achieved considerable success in various benchmark tasks, they still suffer from several limitations, including imprecise attribution of contributions, limited interpretability, and poor scalability in high-dimensional state spaces. To address these challenges, we propose a novel algorithm, QLLM, which facilitates the automatic construction of credit assignment functions using large language models (LLMs). Specifically, the concept of TFCAF is introduced, wherein the credit allocation process is represented as a direct and expressive nonlinear functional formulation. A custom-designed coder-evaluator framework is further employed to guide the generation and verification of executable code by LLMs, significantly mitigating issues such as hallucination and shallow reasoning during inference. Furthermore, an IGM-Gating Mechanism enables QLLM to flexibly enforce or relax the monotonicity constraint depending on task demands, covering both IGM-compliant and non-monotonic scenarios. Extensive experiments conducted on several standard MARL benchmarks demonstrate that the proposed method consistently outperforms existing state-of-the-art baselines. Moreover, QLLM exhibits strong generalization capability and maintains compatibility with a wide range of MARL algorithms that utilize mixing networks, positioning it as a promising and versatile solution for complex multi-agent scenarios. The code is available at https://github.com/zhouyangjiang71-sys/QLLM."}},{"id":"228698213629622378","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23676","title":"Web World Models","description":"arXiv:2512.23676v1 Announce Type: cross Abstract: Language agents increasingly require persistent worlds in which they can act, remember, and learn. Existing approaches sit at two extremes: conventional web frameworks provide reliable but fixed contexts backed by databases, while fully generative world models aim for unlimited environments at the expense of controllability and practical engineering. In this work, we introduce the Web World Model (WWM), a middle ground where world state and ``physics'' are implemented in ordinary web code to ensure logical consistency, while large language models generate context, narratives, and high-level decisions on top of this structured latent state. We build a suite of WWMs on a realistic web stack, including an infinite travel atlas grounded in real geography, fictional galaxy explorers, web-scale encyclopedic and narrative worlds, and simulation- and game-like environments. Across these systems, we identify practical design principles for WWMs: separating code-defined rules from model-driven imagination, representing latent state as typed web interfaces, and utilizing deterministic generation to achieve unlimited but structured exploration. Our results suggest that web stacks themselves can serve as a scalable substrate for world models, enabling controllable yet open-ended environments. Project Page: https://github.com/Princeton-AI2-Lab/Web-World-Models.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.994Z","authors":"Jichen Feng, Yifan Zhang, Chenggong Zhang, Yifu Lu, Shilong Liu, Mengdi Wang","source":"cs.CV updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23676v1 Announce Type: cross \nAbstract: Language agents increasingly require persistent worlds in which they can act, remember, and learn. Existing approaches sit at two extremes: conventional web frameworks provide reliable but fixed contexts backed by databases, while fully generative world models aim for unlimited environments at the expense of controllability and practical engineering. In this work, we introduce the Web World Model (WWM), a middle ground where world state and ``physics'' are implemented in ordinary web code to ensure logical consistency, while large language models generate context, narratives, and high-level decisions on top of this structured latent state. We build a suite of WWMs on a realistic web stack, including an infinite travel atlas grounded in real geography, fictional galaxy explorers, web-scale encyclopedic and narrative worlds, and simulation- and game-like environments. Across these systems, we identify practical design principles for WWMs: separating code-defined rules from model-driven imagination, representing latent state as typed web interfaces, and utilizing deterministic generation to achieve unlimited but structured exploration. Our results suggest that web stacks themselves can serve as a scalable substrate for world models, enabling controllable yet open-ended environments. Project Page: https://github.com/Princeton-AI2-Lab/Web-World-Models."}},{"id":"228710199016038440","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.22306","title":"Beyond Single Bugs: Benchmarking Large Language Models for Multi-Vulnerability Detection","description":"arXiv:2512.22306v1 Announce Type: cross Abstract: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant potential in automated software security, particularly in vulnerability detection. However, existing benchmarks primarily focus on isolated, single-vulnerability samples or function-level classification, failing to reflect the complexity of real-world software where multiple interacting vulnerabilities often coexist within large files. Recent studies indicate that LLMs suffer from \"count bias\" and \"selection bias\" in multi-label tasks, yet this has not been rigorously quantified in the domain of code security. In this work, we introduce a comprehensive benchmark for Multi-Vulnerability Detection across four major languages: C, C++, Python, and JavaScript. We construct a dataset of 40,000 files by systematically injecting controlled counts of vulnerabilities (1, 3, 5, and 9) into long-context code samples (7.5k-10k tokens) sourced from CodeParrot. We evaluate five state-of-the-art LLMs, including GPT-4o-mini, Llama-3.3-70B, and the Qwen-2.5 series. Our results reveal a sharp degradation in performance as vulnerability density increases. While Llama-3.3-70B achieves near-perfect F1 scores (approximately 0.97) on single-vulnerability C tasks, performance drops by up to 40% in high-density settings. Notably, Python and JavaScript show distinct failure modes compared to C/C++, with models exhibiting severe \"under-counting\" (Recall dropping to less than 0.30) in complex Python files.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.993Z","authors":"Chinmay Pushkar, Sanchit Kabra, Dhruv Kumar, Jagat Sesh Challa","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.22306v1 Announce Type: cross \nAbstract: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant potential in automated software security, particularly in vulnerability detection. However, existing benchmarks primarily focus on isolated, single-vulnerability samples or function-level classification, failing to reflect the complexity of real-world software where multiple interacting vulnerabilities often coexist within large files. Recent studies indicate that LLMs suffer from \"count bias\" and \"selection bias\" in multi-label tasks, yet this has not been rigorously quantified in the domain of code security. In this work, we introduce a comprehensive benchmark for Multi-Vulnerability Detection across four major languages: C, C++, Python, and JavaScript. We construct a dataset of 40,000 files by systematically injecting controlled counts of vulnerabilities (1, 3, 5, and 9) into long-context code samples (7.5k-10k tokens) sourced from CodeParrot. We evaluate five state-of-the-art LLMs, including GPT-4o-mini, Llama-3.3-70B, and the Qwen-2.5 series. Our results reveal a sharp degradation in performance as vulnerability density increases. While Llama-3.3-70B achieves near-perfect F1 scores (approximately 0.97) on single-vulnerability C tasks, performance drops by up to 40% in high-density settings. Notably, Python and JavaScript show distinct failure modes compared to C/C++, with models exhibiting severe \"under-counting\" (Recall dropping to less than 0.30) in complex Python files."}},{"id":"228710199016038432","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.22280","title":"Valori: A Deterministic Memory Substrate for AI Systems","description":"arXiv:2512.22280v1 Announce Type: cross Abstract: Modern AI systems rely on vector embeddings stored and searched using floating-point arithmetic. While effective for approximate similarity search, this design introduces fundamental non-determinism: identical models, inputs, and code can produce different memory states and retrieval results across hardware architectures (e.g., x86 vs. ARM). This prevents replayability and safe deployment, leading to silent data divergence that prevents post-hoc verification and compromises audit trails in regulated sectors. We present Valori, a deterministic AI memory substrate that replaces floating-point memory operations with fixed-point arithmetic (Q16.16) and models memory as a replayable state machine. Valori guarantees bit-identical memory states, snapshots, and search results across platforms. We demonstrate that non-determinism arises before indexing or retrieval and show how Valori enforces determinism at the memory boundary. Our results suggest that deterministic memory is a necessary primitive for trustworthy AI systems. The reference implementation is open-source and available at https://github.com/varshith-Git/Valori-Kernel (archived at https://zenodo.org/records/18022660).","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.988Z","authors":"Varshith Gudur","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.22280v1 Announce Type: cross \nAbstract: Modern AI systems rely on vector embeddings stored and searched using floating-point arithmetic. While effective for approximate similarity search, this design introduces fundamental non-determinism: identical models, inputs, and code can produce different memory states and retrieval results across hardware architectures (e.g., x86 vs. ARM). This prevents replayability and safe deployment, leading to silent data divergence that prevents post-hoc verification and compromises audit trails in regulated sectors. We present Valori, a deterministic AI memory substrate that replaces floating-point memory operations with fixed-point arithmetic (Q16.16) and models memory as a replayable state machine. Valori guarantees bit-identical memory states, snapshots, and search results across platforms. We demonstrate that non-determinism arises before indexing or retrieval and show how Valori enforces determinism at the memory boundary. Our results suggest that deterministic memory is a necessary primitive for trustworthy AI systems. The reference implementation is open-source and available at https://github.com/varshith-Git/Valori-Kernel (archived at https://zenodo.org/records/18022660)."}},{"id":"228698213629622274","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23147","title":"GeoTeacher: Geometry-Guided Semi-Supervised 3D Object Detection","description":"arXiv:2512.23147v1 Announce Type: new Abstract: Semi-supervised 3D object detection, aiming to explore unlabeled data for boosting 3D object detectors, has emerged as an active research area in recent years. Some previous methods have shown substantial improvements by either employing heterogeneous teacher models to provide high-quality pseudo labels or enforcing feature-perspective consistency between the teacher and student networks. However, these methods overlook the fact that the model usually tends to exhibit low sensitivity to object geometries with limited labeled data, making it difficult to capture geometric information, which is crucial for enhancing the student model's ability in object perception and localization. In this paper, we propose GeoTeacher to enhance the student model's ability to capture geometric relations of objects with limited training data, especially unlabeled data. We design a keypoint-based geometric relation supervision module that transfers the teacher model's knowledge of object geometry to the student, thereby improving the student's capability in understanding geometric relations. Furthermore, we introduce a voxel-wise data augmentation strategy that increases the diversity of object geometries, thereby further improving the student model's ability to comprehend geometric structures. To preserve the integrity of distant objects during augmentation, we incorporate a distance-decay mechanism into this strategy. Moreover, GeoTeacher can be combined with different SS3D methods to further improve their performance. Extensive experiments on the ONCE and Waymo datasets indicate the effectiveness and generalization of our method and we achieve the new state-of-the-art results. Code will be available at https://github.com/SII-Whaleice/GeoTeacher","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.986Z","authors":"Jingyu Li, Xiaolong Zhao, Zhe Liu, Wenxiao Wu, Li Zhang","source":"cs.CV updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23147v1 Announce Type: new \nAbstract: Semi-supervised 3D object detection, aiming to explore unlabeled data for boosting 3D object detectors, has emerged as an active research area in recent years. Some previous methods have shown substantial improvements by either employing heterogeneous teacher models to provide high-quality pseudo labels or enforcing feature-perspective consistency between the teacher and student networks. However, these methods overlook the fact that the model usually tends to exhibit low sensitivity to object geometries with limited labeled data, making it difficult to capture geometric information, which is crucial for enhancing the student model's ability in object perception and localization. In this paper, we propose GeoTeacher to enhance the student model's ability to capture geometric relations of objects with limited training data, especially unlabeled data. We design a keypoint-based geometric relation supervision module that transfers the teacher model's knowledge of object geometry to the student, thereby improving the student's capability in understanding geometric relations. Furthermore, we introduce a voxel-wise data augmentation strategy that increases the diversity of object geometries, thereby further improving the student model's ability to comprehend geometric structures. To preserve the integrity of distant objects during augmentation, we incorporate a distance-decay mechanism into this strategy. Moreover, GeoTeacher can be combined with different SS3D methods to further improve their performance. Extensive experiments on the ONCE and Waymo datasets indicate the effectiveness and generalization of our method and we achieve the new state-of-the-art results. Code will be available at https://github.com/SII-Whaleice/GeoTeacher"}},{"id":"228710199016038658","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.25987","title":"R-Log: Incentivizing Log Analysis Capability in LLMs via Reasoning-based Reinforcement Learning","description":"arXiv:2509.25987v2 Announce Type: replace-cross Abstract: The growing complexity of log data in modern software systems has prompted the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) for automated log analysis. Current approaches typically rely on direct supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on log-label pairs. However, this exacerbates the domain discrepancy between general-purpose LLMs and specialized log data, causing overfitting. Furthermore, SFT's imbalanced loss computation often allows lengthy contexts to overwhelm critical, concise details in model answers, leading to hallucinations. To address these limitations, we propose R-Log, a novel reasoning-based paradigm that mirrors the structured, step-by-step analytical process of human engineers. This approach enhances generalizability by learning the underlying rules behind conclusions. We further employ Reinforcement Learning (RL) to optimize the model within a simulated O&#x26;M environment, thereby reducing hallucinations by directly rewarding correct outcomes. R-Log is first cold-started on a curated dataset of 2k+ reasoning trajectories, guided by 13 strategies from manual O&#x26;M practices, to establish an initial reasoning capability. This ability is then refined via RL using a joint reward function. Empirical evaluations on real-world logs show that R-Log outperforms existing methods across five log analysis tasks, particularly in unseen scenarios (by 228.05%). We also designed R-Log-fast with 5x speedup while keeping 93% of the efficacy.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.986Z","authors":"Yilun Liu, Ziang Chen, Song Xu, Minggui He, Shimin Tao, Weibin Meng, Yuming Xie, Tao Han, Chunguang Zhao, Jingzhou Du, Daimeng Wei, Shenglin Zhang, Yongqian Sun","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2509.25987v2 Announce Type: replace-cross \nAbstract: The growing complexity of log data in modern software systems has prompted the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) for automated log analysis. Current approaches typically rely on direct supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on log-label pairs. However, this exacerbates the domain discrepancy between general-purpose LLMs and specialized log data, causing overfitting. Furthermore, SFT's imbalanced loss computation often allows lengthy contexts to overwhelm critical, concise details in model answers, leading to hallucinations. To address these limitations, we propose R-Log, a novel reasoning-based paradigm that mirrors the structured, step-by-step analytical process of human engineers. This approach enhances generalizability by learning the underlying rules behind conclusions. We further employ Reinforcement Learning (RL) to optimize the model within a simulated O&#x26;M environment, thereby reducing hallucinations by directly rewarding correct outcomes. R-Log is first cold-started on a curated dataset of 2k+ reasoning trajectories, guided by 13 strategies from manual O&#x26;M practices, to establish an initial reasoning capability. This ability is then refined via RL using a joint reward function. Empirical evaluations on real-world logs show that R-Log outperforms existing methods across five log analysis tasks, particularly in unseen scenarios (by 228.05%). We also designed R-Log-fast with 5x speedup while keeping 93% of the efficacy."}},{"id":"228698213629622331","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23597","title":"Scalable Residual Feature Aggregation Framework with Hybrid Metaheuristic Optimization for Robust Early Pancreatic Neoplasm Detection in Multimodal CT Imaging","description":"arXiv:2512.23597v1 Announce Type: new Abstract: The early detection of pancreatic neoplasm is a major clinical dilemma, and it is predominantly so because tumors are likely to occur with minimal contrast margins and a large spread anatomy-wide variation amongst patients on a CT scan. These complexities require to be addressed with an effective and scalable system that can assist in enhancing the salience of the subtle visual cues and provide a high level of the generalization on the multimodal imaging data. A Scalable Residual Feature Aggregation (SRFA) framework is proposed to be used to meet these conditions in this study. The framework integrates a pipeline of preprocessing followed by the segmentation using the MAGRes-UNet that is effective in making the pancreatic structures and isolating regions of interest more visible. DenseNet-121 performed with residual feature storage is used to extract features to allow deep hierarchical features to be aggregated without properties loss. To go further, hybrid HHO-BA metaheuristic feature selection strategy is used, which guarantees the best feature subset refinement. To be classified, the system is trained based on a new hybrid model that integrates the ability to pay attention on the world, which is the Vision Transformer (ViT) with the high representational efficiency of EfficientNet-B3. A dual optimization mechanism incorporating SSA and GWO is used to fine-tune hyperparameters to enhance greater robustness and less overfitting. Experimental results support the significant improvement in performance, with the suggested model reaching 96.23% accuracy, 95.58% F1-score and 94.83% specificity, the model is significantly better than the traditional CNNs and contemporary transformer-based models. Such results highlight the possibility of the SRFA framework as a useful instrument in the early detection of pancreatic tumors.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.985Z","authors":"Janani Annur Thiruvengadam, Kiran Mayee Nabigaru, Anusha Kovi","source":"cs.CV updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23597v1 Announce Type: new \nAbstract: The early detection of pancreatic neoplasm is a major clinical dilemma, and it is predominantly so because tumors are likely to occur with minimal contrast margins and a large spread anatomy-wide variation amongst patients on a CT scan. These complexities require to be addressed with an effective and scalable system that can assist in enhancing the salience of the subtle visual cues and provide a high level of the generalization on the multimodal imaging data. A Scalable Residual Feature Aggregation (SRFA) framework is proposed to be used to meet these conditions in this study. The framework integrates a pipeline of preprocessing followed by the segmentation using the MAGRes-UNet that is effective in making the pancreatic structures and isolating regions of interest more visible. DenseNet-121 performed with residual feature storage is used to extract features to allow deep hierarchical features to be aggregated without properties loss. To go further, hybrid HHO-BA metaheuristic feature selection strategy is used, which guarantees the best feature subset refinement. To be classified, the system is trained based on a new hybrid model that integrates the ability to pay attention on the world, which is the Vision Transformer (ViT) with the high representational efficiency of EfficientNet-B3. A dual optimization mechanism incorporating SSA and GWO is used to fine-tune hyperparameters to enhance greater robustness and less overfitting. Experimental results support the significant improvement in performance, with the suggested model reaching 96.23% accuracy, 95.58% F1-score and 94.83% specificity, the model is significantly better than the traditional CNNs and contemporary transformer-based models. Such results highlight the possibility of the SRFA framework as a useful instrument in the early detection of pancreatic tumors."}},{"id":"228710199011844124","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.22933","title":"Multimodal Fact-Checking: An Agent-based Approach","description":"arXiv:2512.22933v1 Announce Type: new Abstract: The rapid spread of multimodal misinformation poses a growing challenge for automated fact-checking systems. Existing approaches, including large vision language models (LVLMs) and deep multimodal fusion methods, often fall short due to limited reasoning and shallow evidence utilization. A key bottleneck is the lack of dedicated datasets that provide complete real-world multimodal misinformation instances accompanied by annotated reasoning processes and verifiable evidence. To address this limitation, we introduce RW-Post, a high-quality and explainable dataset for real-world multimodal fact-checking. RW-Post aligns real-world multimodal claims with their original social media posts, preserving the rich contextual information in which the claims are made. In addition, the dataset includes detailed reasoning and explicitly linked evidence, which are derived from human written fact-checking articles via a large language model assisted extraction pipeline, enabling comprehensive verification and explanation. Building upon RW-Post, we propose AgentFact, an agent-based multimodal fact-checking framework designed to emulate the human verification workflow. AgentFact consists of five specialized agents that collaboratively handle key fact-checking subtasks, including strategy planning, high-quality evidence retrieval, visual analysis, reasoning, and explanation generation. These agents are orchestrated through an iterative workflow that alternates between evidence searching and task-aware evidence filtering and reasoning, facilitating strategic decision-making and systematic evidence analysis. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the synergy between RW-Post and AgentFact substantially improves both the accuracy and interpretability of multimodal fact-checking.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.980Z","authors":"Danni Xu, Shaojing Fan, Xuanang Cheng, Mohan Kankanhalli","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.22933v1 Announce Type: new \nAbstract: The rapid spread of multimodal misinformation poses a growing challenge for automated fact-checking systems. Existing approaches, including large vision language models (LVLMs) and deep multimodal fusion methods, often fall short due to limited reasoning and shallow evidence utilization. A key bottleneck is the lack of dedicated datasets that provide complete real-world multimodal misinformation instances accompanied by annotated reasoning processes and verifiable evidence. To address this limitation, we introduce RW-Post, a high-quality and explainable dataset for real-world multimodal fact-checking. RW-Post aligns real-world multimodal claims with their original social media posts, preserving the rich contextual information in which the claims are made. In addition, the dataset includes detailed reasoning and explicitly linked evidence, which are derived from human written fact-checking articles via a large language model assisted extraction pipeline, enabling comprehensive verification and explanation. Building upon RW-Post, we propose AgentFact, an agent-based multimodal fact-checking framework designed to emulate the human verification workflow. AgentFact consists of five specialized agents that collaboratively handle key fact-checking subtasks, including strategy planning, high-quality evidence retrieval, visual analysis, reasoning, and explanation generation. These agents are orchestrated through an iterative workflow that alternates between evidence searching and task-aware evidence filtering and reasoning, facilitating strategic decision-making and systematic evidence analysis. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the synergy between RW-Post and AgentFact substantially improves both the accuracy and interpretability of multimodal fact-checking."}},{"id":"228710199016038637","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.06952","title":"What Has a Foundation Model Found? Using Inductive Bias to Probe for World Models","description":"arXiv:2507.06952v4 Announce Type: replace-cross Abstract: Foundation models are premised on the idea that sequence prediction can uncover deeper domain understanding, much like how Kepler's predictions of planetary motion later led to the discovery of Newtonian mechanics. However, evaluating whether these models truly capture deeper structure remains a challenge. We develop a technique for evaluating foundation models that examines how they adapt to synthetic datasets generated from some postulated world model. Our technique measures whether the foundation model's inductive bias aligns with the world model, and so we refer to it as an inductive bias probe. Across multiple domains, we find that foundation models can excel at their training tasks yet fail to develop inductive biases towards the underlying world model when adapted to new tasks. We particularly find that foundation models trained on orbital trajectories consistently fail to apply Newtonian mechanics when adapted to new physics tasks. Further analysis reveals that these models behave as if they develop task-specific heuristics that fail to generalize.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.979Z","authors":"Keyon Vafa, Peter G. Chang, Ashesh Rambachan, Sendhil Mullainathan","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2507.06952v4 Announce Type: replace-cross \nAbstract: Foundation models are premised on the idea that sequence prediction can uncover deeper domain understanding, much like how Kepler's predictions of planetary motion later led to the discovery of Newtonian mechanics. However, evaluating whether these models truly capture deeper structure remains a challenge. We develop a technique for evaluating foundation models that examines how they adapt to synthetic datasets generated from some postulated world model. Our technique measures whether the foundation model's inductive bias aligns with the world model, and so we refer to it as an inductive bias probe. Across multiple domains, we find that foundation models can excel at their training tasks yet fail to develop inductive biases towards the underlying world model when adapted to new tasks. We particularly find that foundation models trained on orbital trajectories consistently fail to apply Newtonian mechanics when adapted to new physics tasks. Further analysis reveals that these models behave as if they develop task-specific heuristics that fail to generalize."}},{"id":"228698213629622371","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23318","title":"PCR-ORB: Enhanced ORB-SLAM3 with Point Cloud Refinement Using Deep Learning-Based Dynamic Object Filtering","description":"arXiv:2512.23318v1 Announce Type: cross Abstract: Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (vSLAM) systems encounter substantial challenges in dynamic environments where moving objects compromise tracking accuracy and map consistency. This paper introduces PCR-ORB (Point Cloud Refinement ORB), an enhanced ORB-SLAM3 framework that integrates deep learning-based point cloud refinement to mitigate dynamic object interference. Our approach employs YOLOv8 for semantic segmentation combined with CUDA-accelerated processing to achieve real-time performance. The system implements a multi-stage filtering strategy encompassing ground plane estimation, sky region removal, edge filtering, and temporal consistency validation. Comprehensive evaluation on the KITTI dataset (sequences 00-09) demonstrates performance characteristics across different environmental conditions and scene types. Notable improvements are observed in specific sequences, with sequence 04 achieving 25.9% improvement in ATE RMSE and 30.4% improvement in ATE median. However, results show mixed performance across sequences, indicating scenario-dependent effectiveness. The implementation provides insights into dynamic object filtering challenges and opportunities for robust navigation in complex environments.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.976Z","authors":"Sheng-Kai Chen, Jie-Yu Chao, Jr-Yu Chang, Po-Lien Wu, Po-Chiang Lin","source":"cs.CV updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23318v1 Announce Type: cross \nAbstract: Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (vSLAM) systems encounter substantial challenges in dynamic environments where moving objects compromise tracking accuracy and map consistency. This paper introduces PCR-ORB (Point Cloud Refinement ORB), an enhanced ORB-SLAM3 framework that integrates deep learning-based point cloud refinement to mitigate dynamic object interference. Our approach employs YOLOv8 for semantic segmentation combined with CUDA-accelerated processing to achieve real-time performance. The system implements a multi-stage filtering strategy encompassing ground plane estimation, sky region removal, edge filtering, and temporal consistency validation. Comprehensive evaluation on the KITTI dataset (sequences 00-09) demonstrates performance characteristics across different environmental conditions and scene types. Notable improvements are observed in specific sequences, with sequence 04 achieving 25.9% improvement in ATE RMSE and 30.4% improvement in ATE median. However, results show mixed performance across sequences, indicating scenario-dependent effectiveness. The implementation provides insights into dynamic object filtering challenges and opportunities for robust navigation in complex environments."}},{"id":"228710199016038575","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23541","title":"Act2Goal: From World Model To General Goal-conditioned Policy","description":"arXiv:2512.23541v1 Announce Type: cross Abstract: Specifying robotic manipulation tasks in a manner that is both expressive and precise remains a central challenge. While visual goals provide a compact and unambiguous task specification, existing goal-conditioned policies often struggle with long-horizon manipulation due to their reliance on single-step action prediction without explicit modeling of task progress. We propose Act2Goal, a general goal-conditioned manipulation policy that integrates a goal-conditioned visual world model with multi-scale temporal control. Given a current observation and a target visual goal, the world model generates a plausible sequence of intermediate visual states that captures long-horizon structure. To translate this visual plan into robust execution, we introduce Multi-Scale Temporal Hashing (MSTH), which decomposes the imagined trajectory into dense proximal frames for fine-grained closed-loop control and sparse distal frames that anchor global task consistency. The policy couples these representations with motor control through end-to-end cross-attention, enabling coherent long-horizon behavior while remaining reactive to local disturbances. Act2Goal achieves strong zero-shot generalization to novel objects, spatial layouts, and environments. We further enable reward-free online adaptation through hindsight goal relabeling with LoRA-based finetuning, allowing rapid autonomous improvement without external supervision. Real-robot experiments demonstrate that Act2Goal improves success rates from 30% to 90% on challenging out-of-distribution tasks within minutes of autonomous interaction, validating that goal-conditioned world models with multi-scale temporal control provide structured guidance necessary for robust long-horizon manipulation. Project page: https://act2goal.github.io/","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.974Z","authors":"Pengfei Zhou, Liliang Chen, Shengcong Chen, Di Chen, Wenzhi Zhao, Rongjun Jin, Guanghui Ren, Jianlan Luo","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23541v1 Announce Type: cross \nAbstract: Specifying robotic manipulation tasks in a manner that is both expressive and precise remains a central challenge. While visual goals provide a compact and unambiguous task specification, existing goal-conditioned policies often struggle with long-horizon manipulation due to their reliance on single-step action prediction without explicit modeling of task progress. We propose Act2Goal, a general goal-conditioned manipulation policy that integrates a goal-conditioned visual world model with multi-scale temporal control. Given a current observation and a target visual goal, the world model generates a plausible sequence of intermediate visual states that captures long-horizon structure. To translate this visual plan into robust execution, we introduce Multi-Scale Temporal Hashing (MSTH), which decomposes the imagined trajectory into dense proximal frames for fine-grained closed-loop control and sparse distal frames that anchor global task consistency. The policy couples these representations with motor control through end-to-end cross-attention, enabling coherent long-horizon behavior while remaining reactive to local disturbances. Act2Goal achieves strong zero-shot generalization to novel objects, spatial layouts, and environments. We further enable reward-free online adaptation through hindsight goal relabeling with LoRA-based finetuning, allowing rapid autonomous improvement without external supervision. Real-robot experiments demonstrate that Act2Goal improves success rates from 30% to 90% on challenging out-of-distribution tasks within minutes of autonomous interaction, validating that goal-conditioned world models with multi-scale temporal control provide structured guidance necessary for robust long-horizon manipulation. Project page: https://act2goal.github.io/"}},{"id":"228698213625427969","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.22177","title":"Real-Time American Sign Language Recognition Using 3D Convolutional Neural Networks and LSTM: Architecture, Training, and Deployment","description":"arXiv:2512.22177v1 Announce Type: new Abstract: This paper presents a real-time American Sign Language (ASL) recognition system utilizing a hybrid deep learning architecture combining 3D Convolutional Neural Networks (3D CNN) with Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks. The system processes webcam video streams to recognize word-level ASL signs, addressing communication barriers for over 70 million deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals worldwide. Our architecture leverages 3D convolutions to capture spatial-temporal features from video frames, followed by LSTM layers that model sequential dependencies inherent in sign language gestures. Trained on the WLASL dataset (2,000 common words), ASL-LEX lexical database (~2,700 signs), and a curated set of 100 expert-annotated ASL signs, the system achieves F1-scores ranging from 0.71 to 0.99 across sign classes. The model is deployed on AWS infrastructure with edge deployment capability on OAK-D cameras for real-time inference. We discuss the architecture design, training methodology, evaluation metrics, and deployment considerations for practical accessibility applications.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.973Z","authors":"Dawnena Key","source":"cs.CV updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.22177v1 Announce Type: new \nAbstract: This paper presents a real-time American Sign Language (ASL) recognition system utilizing a hybrid deep learning architecture combining 3D Convolutional Neural Networks (3D CNN) with Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks. The system processes webcam video streams to recognize word-level ASL signs, addressing communication barriers for over 70 million deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals worldwide. Our architecture leverages 3D convolutions to capture spatial-temporal features from video frames, followed by LSTM layers that model sequential dependencies inherent in sign language gestures. Trained on the WLASL dataset (2,000 common words), ASL-LEX lexical database (~2,700 signs), and a curated set of 100 expert-annotated ASL signs, the system achieves F1-scores ranging from 0.71 to 0.99 across sign classes. The model is deployed on AWS infrastructure with edge deployment capability on OAK-D cameras for real-time inference. We discuss the architecture design, training methodology, evaluation metrics, and deployment considerations for practical accessibility applications."}},{"id":"228710199016038522","type":"paper","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23032","title":"Is Chain-of-Thought Really Not Explainability? Chain-of-Thought Can Be Faithful without Hint Verbalization","description":"arXiv:2512.23032v1 Announce Type: cross Abstract: Recent work, using the Biasing Features metric, labels a CoT as unfaithful if it omits a prompt-injected hint that affected the prediction. We argue this metric confuses unfaithfulness with incompleteness, the lossy compression needed to turn distributed transformer computation into a linear natural language narrative. On multi-hop reasoning tasks with Llama-3 and Gemma-3, many CoTs flagged as unfaithful by Biasing Features are judged faithful by other metrics, exceeding 50% in some models. With a new faithful@k metric, we show that larger inference-time token budgets greatly increase hint verbalization (up to 90% in some settings), suggesting much apparent unfaithfulness is due to tight token limits. Using Causal Mediation Analysis, we further show that even non-verbalized hints can causally mediate prediction changes through the CoT. We therefore caution against relying solely on hint-based evaluations and advocate a broader interpretability toolkit, including causal mediation and corruption-based metrics.","published_date":"2025-12-30T05:00:00.972Z","authors":"Kerem Zaman, Shashank Srivastava","source":"cs.AI updates on arXiv.org","details":{"content_html":"arXiv:2512.23032v1 Announce Type: cross \nAbstract: Recent work, using the Biasing Features metric, labels a CoT as unfaithful if it omits a prompt-injected hint that affected the prediction. We argue this metric confuses unfaithfulness with incompleteness, the lossy compression needed to turn distributed transformer computation into a linear natural language narrative. On multi-hop reasoning tasks with Llama-3 and Gemma-3, many CoTs flagged as unfaithful by Biasing Features are judged faithful by other metrics, exceeding 50% in some models. With a new faithful@k metric, we show that larger inference-time token budgets greatly increase hint verbalization (up to 90% in some settings), suggesting much apparent unfaithfulness is due to tight token limits. Using Causal Mediation Analysis, we further show that even non-verbalized hints can causally mediate prediction changes through the CoT. We therefore caution against relying solely on hint-based evaluations and advocate a broader interpretability toolkit, including causal mediation and corruption-based metrics."}}]